---
title: Live Stats
description: Descriptions of live how live statistics are calculated on TxStreet.
published: true
date: 2021-07-13T23:04:37.811Z
tags: litecoin
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-07-13T23:04:37.811Z
---

## Broadcasted Tx/Sec

Broadcasted transactions per second measures the number of new and unique transactions broadcasted within the last 5 minutes. This number is then divided by 300 to reach an average "per second" result.

## Confirmed Tx/Sec

Confirmed transactions per second measures rate of confirmed transactions per second over the past hour. If there was no confirmed block in the past hour, the timespan is increased past one hour to the last block's timestamp.

## Mempool Size

Mempool Size measures the sum of the size (Megabytes) of the pending transactions in the mempool on the TxStreet Litecoin node.

## Mempool Count

Mempool Count measures the total number of pending transactions in the mempool on the TxStreet Litecoin node.

## Median Fee (USD)

Median Estimated Fee (USD) measures the median fee in USD from new and unique transactions broadcasted within the last 5 minutes.

## Median Fee (Sat/vByte)

Median Estimated Fee (Sat/Byte) measures the median fee in Satoshis per Byte (vByte for BTC) from new and unique transactions broadcasted within the last 5 minutes.

## vBytes Per Second

Bytes Per Second measures the sum of the size (Bytes or vBytes for BTC) of each new and unique transaction broadcasted within the last 5 minutes. This number is then divided by 300 to reach an average "per second" result.

## Last Block

Last Block is the difference in time from now and the timestamp attached to the last block. The timestamp is generated by miners and is not exact, which is why the measurement may be higher than the truth.

## Median Txs Per Block

Median Txs Per Block measures the median number of transactions included in each block over the last hour.

## Median Block Size

Median Block Size measures the median data used by a block (in megabytes) over the last hour.

## Average Block Time

Average Block Time measures the average time between mined blocks over the last 250 blocks.