---
title: Stats                                          
description:                                          
published: true                                       
date: 2021-03-16T19:18:20.998Z                        
tags: stats, terminology                                
editor: markdown                                   
dateCreated: 2021-03-15T18:16:34.998Z 
---

# Stats

## Broadcasted Tx/Sec

"Broadcasted Tx/Sec" measures the number of new and unique transactions broadcasted within the last 5 minutes. This number is then divided by 300 to reach an average "per second" result.

## Confirmed Tx/Sec 

"Confirmed Tx/Sec" measures rate of confirmed transactions per second over the past hour.



## Txpool Count

"Txpool Count" measures the total number of "pending" and "queued" transactions in the txpool on the TxStreet Ethereum node.

### Txpool

The Txpool is a list or "pool" of transactions waiting to be confirmed on the Ethereum Network. These transactions are stored in each node's memory until they are confirmed and stored in a block on the blockchain. Each node is responsible for maintaining it's own txpool, which means some nodes may have a slightly different list of transactions in their txpool than others. However, the list is more or less the same across the network. When a block is found by a miner, they choose transactions from the txpool to include in the block. They can choose any number of transactions as long as the total gasUsed of the transactions included is less than the block gas limit. Miners are incentivized to pick transactions with the highest fee attached, because they get to claim these fees along with the block reward.

## Mempool Size

"Mempool Size" measures the sum of the size (Megabytes) of the pending transactions in the mempool on the TxStreet Bitcoin/Bitcoin Cash node.

## Mempool Count

"Mempool Count" measures the total number of pending transactions in the mempool on the TxStreet Bitcoin/Bitcoin Cash node.

### Mempool

The mempool is a list or "pool" of transactions currently waiting to be confirmed on the Bitcoin network. These transactions are stored in each node's memory until they are confirmed and stored in a block on the blockchain. Each node is responsible for maintaining it's own mempool, which means some nodes may have a slightly different list of transactions in their mempool than others. However, the list is more or less the same across the network. When a block is found by a miner, they choose transactions from the mempool to include in the block. They can choose any number of transactions as long as the total size of the transactions included is less than the block size limit (or total weight less is than the weight limit on BTC). Miners are incentivized to pick transactions with the highest fee attached, because they get to claim these fees along with the block reward.

On TxStreet.com, the txpool is visualized with people. Each person represents one transaction in the mempool waiting to get to the blockchain.

## Median Estimated Fee (USD)

"Median Estimated Fee (USD)" measures the median fee from new and unique transactions broadcasted within the last 5 minutes. Since Ethereum gas fees are not exact until after the transaction is confirmed, this gas is first divided by "Median Tx Gas Used/Limit" for transactions with a gasLimit greater than 42000. This is why this number is an estimate and not exact.

## Median Fee (Sat/Byte)

"Median Estimated Fee (Sat/Byte)" measures the median fee in Satoshis per Byte (vByte for BTC) from new and unique transactions broadcasted within the last 5 minutes.

### Transaction Fees

Transaction fees are fees attached to transactions by the sender. These fees can only be collected by a miner after it has been included in a block, which is what incentivizes the miner to do so.

The median transaction fee directly correlates to supply and demand. If there is a large number of transactions and the block size limit is too small to include all of those transactions into a block, senders will "outbid" each other for a spot in the next block by increasing their transaction fee, and effectively incentivizing the miners to choose their transaction over someone else's. This is usually done automatically by the wallet software. If there is a lot of transactions, and the block size limit is large enough to include them all, the average transaction fee will not increase, because there is enough supply to fulfill the demand.

## Median Gas Price

"Median Gas Price" measures the median gas price from new and unique transactions broadcasted within the last 5 minutes.

## Last Block

"Last Block" is the difference in time from now and the timestamp attached to the last block. The timestamp is generated by miners and is not exact, which is why the measurement may be higher than the truth

### Block Time 

The block time is the average time between blocks that are found by miners. This average is 10 minutes for both Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin, and ~15 seconds for Ethereum. In practice, individual block times will vary above and below these times. Sometimes to a great extent.

The block time is enforced by the network through "difficulty", which is a measure of how difficult it is for miners to find a hash in order to create a block.

## Median Transactions Per Block

"Median Txs Per Block" measures the median number of transactions included in each block over the last hour.

## Difficulty

Coming Soon

## Gas Limit

"Block Gas Limit" is the maximum amount of gas that a block is allowed to contain, using the sum of the gas used by all transactions in that block. The maximum gas limit is voted on by miners of the Ethereum Network.

### Block Size 

The block size limit is the maximum size that a block can be in order to be accepted by the network. The more transactions that are included in a block, the larger it gets. Therefore, the lower the block size limit is for a block, the fewer transactions it can hold. This also means a lower transaction throughput for the network.

On TxStreet.com, the block size limit is visualized by the size of the buses.

## Median Block Gas

"Median Block Gas" measures the median gas used by a block (sum of the gas used by all transactions in that block) over the last hour.

## Median Block Size

"Median Block Size" measures the median data used by a block (in megabytes) over the last hour.

## Median Transaction Gas Used/Limit

"Median Tx Gas Used/Limit". First, the average (gasUsed / gas) of each transaction greater than 21000 gas in a recently mined block is obtained. This average is appended to a list of averages (no more than 500 in length), from which the final median result is reached.

## Average Block Time

"Average Block Time" measures the average time between mined blocks over the last 250 blocks.

### Block Time

The block time is the average time between blocks that are found by miners. This average is 10 minutes for both Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin, and ~15 seconds for Ethereum. In practice, individual block times will vary above and below these times. Sometimes to a great extent.

The block time is enforced by the network through "difficulty", which is a measure of how difficult it is for miners to find a hash in order to create a block.

## Bytes Per Second

"Bytes Per Second" measures the sum of the size (Bytes or vBytes for BTC) of each new and unique transaction broadcasted within the last 5 minutes. This number is then divided by 300 to reach an average "per second" result.



